README.md, before:

# Assignment 2 - DD2480 - Continous Integration

## Building and testing the backend

In order to be able to build and run the tests, a few tools are needed.

- Mongodb
- Maven
- Java version 19

To build and run the server, run the following command inside the backend directory:
`mvn clean spring-boot:run`

To run the tests, use the following command inside the backend directory:
`mvn test`

## Statement of contributions
Daniel Ericsson: Commits by HelloDane. Created multiple backend interfaces/functions. Implemented and tested functions for cloning and compiling repos. Code review. Wrote parts of the documentation, such as statements of contributions.

Marcus Friberg: Commits by Xolvez. Created multiple backend interfaces/functions. Set up the project skeleton with Spring and created the frontend using React. Code review. Wrote several parts of the documentation.

Siyang Yang: Commits by Kawbat. Created multiple backend interfaces/functions. Code review. Created GithubRequest class, build endpoints, email functionality. Wrote parts of the documentation, such as Essence state.

## Essence standard assessment
According to the Essence standard, there are five states that describe a team and its progress. They are Seeded, Formed, Collaborating, Performing, and Adjourned.

We have fulfilled the state “Seeded” by defining the mission requirement and constraints. We have a fixed-size team, and the responsibilities of team members are outlined.

We have fulfilled the state “Formed” by making sure every team member understands the team organization, individual roles, and the way to perform the work. We use Discord to share information and hold online meetings. Each team member commits to working on the team as defined.

We have fulfilled the state “Collaborating” by having open and honest communication between team members, trusting each other, and focusing on achieving the team mission. The team makes regular meetings to update the process and is working as one cohesive unit.

Finally, we are currently in the "Performing" state, since the team is achieving effective progress with minimal reworking, and wasted work is identified and eliminated continuously. The team continuously adapts to the changing context and solves problems.

We have not yet reached the “Adjourned” state, since we still need to put further effort to complete the mission. For example, we need more time to improve the details of our documentation on how to set up the environment and dependencies for the project, and how to get the project running. We are going to reach this state after we hand in the assignment.

Commit message:

DOC #55 Document in the README how notification has been implemented and unit-tested

README.md, after:

# Assignment 2 - DD2480 - Continous Integration

## Building and testing the backend

In order to be able to build and run the tests, a few tools are needed.

- Mongodb
- Maven
- Java version 19

To build and run the server, run the following command inside the backend directory:
`mvn clean spring-boot:run`

To run the tests, use the following command inside the backend directory:
`mvn test`

## Notification
Our CI server supports notification of CI results by sending an email to the project member about the build result.

We use the javax.mail package to support sending the email. And we use the jodd package to create the SMTP server, open a SendMailSession and generate an Email, to implement the email sending service.

The unit test of the EmailService is done by calling the interface and checking if our mailbox receives the notification email.

## Statement of contributions
Daniel Ericsson: Commits by HelloDane. Created multiple backend interfaces/functions. Implemented and tested functions for cloning and compiling repos. Code review. Wrote parts of the documentation, such as statements of contributions.

Marcus Friberg: Commits by Xolvez. Created multiple backend interfaces/functions. Set up the project skeleton with Spring and created the frontend using React. Code review. Wrote several parts of the documentation.

Siyang Yang: Commits by Kawbat. Created multiple backend interfaces/functions. Code review. Created GithubRequest class, build endpoints, email functionality. Wrote parts of the documentation, such as Essence state.

## Essence standard assessment
According to the Essence standard, there are five states that describe a team and its progress. They are Seeded, Formed, Collaborating, Performing, and Adjourned.

We have fulfilled the state “Seeded” by defining the mission requirement and constraints. We have a fixed-size team, and the responsibilities of team members are outlined.

We have fulfilled the state “Formed” by making sure every team member understands the team organization, individual roles, and the way to perform the work. We use Discord to share information and hold online meetings. Each team member commits to working on the team as defined.

We have fulfilled the state “Collaborating” by having open and honest communication between team members, trusting each other, and focusing on achieving the team mission. The team makes regular meetings to update the process and is working as one cohesive unit.

Finally, we are currently in the "Performing" state, since the team is achieving effective progress with minimal reworking, and wasted work is identified and eliminated continuously. The team continuously adapts to the changing context and solves problems.

We have not yet reached the “Adjourned” state, since we still need to put further effort to complete the mission. For example, we need more time to improve the details of our documentation on how to set up the environment and dependencies for the project, and how to get the project running. We are going to reach this state after we hand in the assignment.
